let's go back to our initial fruit
Python file which I called shelve for example but it was
dealing with fruit as you can see here I want to
show you what happens when we assign a new
key a new value I should say to a key for
example we've got this code here come
down here after or before the close after
we printed out these items here we could
do something like fruit...
and just to
confirm it's been updated we can put...
and we can do print....
in double quotes should say....
and grab the value using the key, and we are gonna leave fruit.close() in as
well and leave the final printing so lets do
that and see what happens to lime bearing
in mind on line 9 we defined it as a
sour green citrus fruit then on 14 we
changed the definition and will run that and again
need to make sure to select the right program
because initially when I first created the
class of you recall I called it shelve and
this is the configuration and not the
actual class name which can be confusing so
we go in there if we want to change that probably a
good idea to do that changed the name
we should be able to change that now, will name it fruit
which makes sense to us and click on apply
and save and now we have fruit their which
makes a lot more sense so know if we run
that way or selecting up here you can see
we've got lime is now great with
tequila as you can see there so
obviously it was updated and we saw in
the previous video that the when we misspelled the word
engine and removed an e at the end when we
attempted to access the key that
doesn't exist we got an error and we can
use the get method to avoid that so we
could do something like, will comment some of this code now, so comment the code here and leave the close
line and remove the print as well
we don't need it anymore, the code above that we will put a while...
...will ask for some input....and will put if....thats the case we
are gonna break
otherwise we gonna do a look up so...
and use the key that is
entered by the user
who type that in and trumpeted it out, description... and also leave line 27 and then we
broken out of the loop we close the
shelve down because we finished
processing so we try running that now
so type a valid one, lime a sour green
citrus fruit we could write grape that work
lets try typing that is not
in there Strawberry we get none and I can quit out of that as well, we
can also specify the default value to return
if the key is not present and dare I say it
again just like a dictionary and if you
remember how to do that we come down here and we
put in the fruit.get..if we run that...enter a valid one like lemon to check if its working
try something like melon
and I don't have a melon instead of saying none which
obviously is a lot more user-friendly, and ill quit out of that
the same effect can be obtained by
checking if the key itself is in the
shelve before attempting to retrieve and print
the value using in and again it's just like a
dictionary so we could modify a program
they so lets just changed that shelf_key lets just
refactor that so right click refactor  and rename
that we raname that to dict_key and refactor it
a few other changes there instead of us having
to rename it 4 5 places, please enter a
fruit
if the dictionary key equals quit we still
break as we do before, what we can do is
if....only then we do description is fruit.get, will change that description = fruit
dictionary key because we don't need to do that anymore and put...and obviously we don't need that
anymore because we determined that this dictionary key does
exist in our shelve and we put the print
description on that line as well, also put the else
and that's where we print the item, so we....we leave the fruit.close() alone, so we run that again
enter lemon , apple, put melon
we don't have a melon, so it still work in the same as it was before
we've just done the test this time
beforehand
instead of only printing it out putting
it out afterward we retrieve it
so just a different way of doing it now the lecture on dictionaries
we pointed out that the keys themselves are
unsorted and the actual order is
undefined for dictionary now the same is true for a shelve
the good thing though is that if
iterate through the keys of our fruit and print
them they may  be in alphabetical order
and that's not surprising as the shelf is
implemented using a data base and just
as an example of that ill comment out the code
the while loop because  we don't need it any more we could do
something like....
print...
so we are printing them out like so
if we run it, in this case its not showing
in alphabetical order but it does on some systems so keep that
in mind again because it's coming from
a database but you can't rely on that or
assuming it does in this case you can see
base on the keys in the values they aren't
sorted in alphabetical order so what you
really want to do is ensure that you get a
sorted list first so in other words if
you need to ensure that you want to sorted
list to be outputted you need to sort
those keys first so how would you go
about doing well we got our fruit open
I'm going to comment this, because obviously
we written to it and each time we are running it we save it again which we don't
need to do so comment those out and
I'm gonna put here ordered keys...
...and you've seen this before..
this its going to be...because we wanted to use
these sorted keys and we go through and print them out
noticed that with ordered keys we
still using the look up key to
grab the value-added because the keys are now sorted we should
get the output showing in alphabetical
order so run that now you can see now,
I've done that way we are getting the output in
alphabetical order which is great even
if the shelf appears to return
the keys in order on your implementation
of python which i believe it doesn't Linux
but not necessarily you can't rely on it
your clearly saw when I was running in
a MAC without the sort code in it didn't
sorted alphabetically for us
automatically so you really want to do
something like this
you want guarantee it can be sorted in that order
now the values method
values items methods of shelve behave as do for a dictionary as well interesting
enough though the actual objects
returned
are not the same type and which type
would depend upon the implementation now
what I'm gonna do is show another example of that we're gonna type some code just gonna print the values
on shelve and then the items
which is just a sequence of
tuples to show yo what I mean, I'm gonna comment that code out, gonna go here and start and we're gonna do....
...and the last line we obviously
leave the fruit.close()
so if we run that, a typo there fruit.values it should be
run that again and there you go
instead of dict_values and dict_items are objects these
methods that were using when called on
the shelve returned values of view as you
can see, values hear about this line output there and also return an item view as well
names of these objects really makes it
clear that they view objects which what they are
can't modify them and that changes to
the underlined lines shelve which will be reflected in them
like the dict_keys the dict_values
and of course the dict_items
objects that we've already
seen in previous lectures now in terms of
behavior though code that works when
using a dictionary and its view objects
will almost always continue to work if
you replace the diction with a shelve so
even if you get a different objects back
essentially the code is still going to work on
most cases without any modification the
initialization will be different and the
shelve has to be close but most of the
work up to that point will work having
said that is one really important
difference between dictionaries and
shelves a shelve key must be a string and
dictionaries themselves can accept any
immutable object as a key as we talked
about
but again a shelve will only accept a string
ok so that is it for now on the next video
we're going to continue our discussion
and look at updating items stored in a
shelve so see you in the next video